# MODELLING AND PREDICTING CYBER HACKING BREACHES

DATA breaches are one of the most devastating cyber incidents. The Privacy Rights Clearinghouse reports 7,730 data breaches between 2005 and 2017, accounting for 9,919,228,821 breached records. The Identity Theft Resource Center andCyber Scout reports 1,093 data breach incidents in 2016, which is 40% higher than the 780 data breach incidents in 2015. The United States Office of Personnel Management(OPM) reports that the personnel information of 4.2 million current and former Federal government employees and the background investigation records of current, former, and prospective federal employees and contractors (including 21.5 million Social Security Numbers) were stolen in 2015. The monetary price incurred by data breaches is also substantial. IBM reports that in year 2016, the global average cost for each lost or stolen record containing sensitive or confidential information was $158. NetDiligence. Manuscript received November 22, 2017; revised March 16, 2018 and April 23, 2018; accepted April 28, 2018. Date of publication May 16, 2018; date of current version May 23, 2018. This work was supported in part by ARL under Grant W911NF-17-2-0127. The associate editor coordinating the review of this manuscript and approving it for publication was Prof. Mauro Conti. (Corresponding author: Shouhuai Xu.) M. Xu is with the Department of Mathematics, Illinois State University, Normal, IL 61761 USA. K. M. Schweitzer and R. M. Bateman are with the U.S. Army Research Laboratory South (Cyber), San Antonio, TX 78284 USA. S. Xu is with the Department of Computer Science, The University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX 78249 USA (e-mail: shxu@cs.utsa.edu). Colour versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org, reports that in year 2016, the median number of breached records was 1,339, the median per-record cost was $39.82, the average breach cost was $665,000, and the median breach cost was $60,000.


While technological solutions can harden cyber systems against attacks, data breaches continue to be a big problem. This motivates us to characterise the evolution of data breach incidents. This not only will deep our understanding of data breaches, but also shed light on other approaches for mitigating the damage, such as insurance. Many believe that insurance will be useful, but the development of accurate cyber risk metrics to guide the assignment of insurance rates is beyond the reach of the current understanding of data breaches (e.g., the lack of modelling approaches). Recently, researchers started modelling data breach incidents. Maillart and Sornette studied the statistical properties of the personal identity losses in the United States between year 2000 and 2008. They found that the number of breach incidents dramatically increases from 2000 to July 2006 but remains stable thereafter. Edwards et al. analysed a dataset containing 2,253 breach incidents that span over a decade (2005 to 2015). They found that neither the size nor the frequency of data breaches has increased over the years. Wheatley et al. analysed a dataset that is combined from and and corresponds to organisational breach incidents between year 2000 and 2015. They found that the frequency of large breach incidents (i.e., the ones that breach more than 50,000 records) occurring to US firms is independent of time, but the frequency of large breach incidents occurring to non-US firms exhibits an increasing trend. The present study is motivated by several questions that have not been investigated until now, such as: Are data breaches caused by cyber-attacks increasing, decreasing, or stabilising? A principled answer to this question will gives a clear insight into the overall situation of cyber threats. This question was not answered by previous studies. Specifically, the dataset analysed in only covered the time span from 2000 to 2008 and does not necessarily contain the breach incidents that are caused by cyber- attacks; the dataset analysed in is more recent, but contains two kinds of incidents: negligent breaches (i.e., incidents caused by lost, discarded, stolen devices and other reasons) and malicious breaching.


This Project analyse a hacking breach dataset from the points of view of the incidents inter-arrival time and the breach size, and showed that they both should be modelled by stochastic processes rather than distributions. The statistical models developed in this paper show satisfactory fitting and prediction accuracies. In particular, we propose using a copula-based approach to predict the joint probability that an incident with a certain magnitude of breach size will occur during a future period of time. Statistical tests show that the methodologies proposed in this paper are better than those which are presented in the literature, because the latter ignored both the temporal correlations and the dependence between the incidents inter-arrival times and the breach sizes. We conducted qualitative and quantitative analyses to draw further insights. We drew a set of cybersecurity insights, including that the threat of cyber hacking breach incidents is indeed getting worse in terms of their frequency, but not the magnitude of their damage. The methodology presented in this paper can be adopted or adapted to analyse datasets of a similar nature.
